

ASHLEY: How could I help loving you? You have all the passion for  
  life that I lack. But that kind of love isn‘t enough to make a successful  
  marriage for two people who are as different as we are. 
  SCARLETT: Why don‘t you say it, you coward? You‘re afraid to  
  marry me. You‘d rather live with that silly little fool who can‘t open  
  her mouth except to say "yes", "no",and raise a houseful of mealy- 
  mouthed brats just like her! ASHLEY: You mustn‘t say things like  
  that about Melanie. SCARLETT: Who are you to tell me I mustn‘t?  
  You led me on, you made me believe you wanted to marry me!  
  ASHLEY: Now Scarlett, be fair. I never at any time... SCARLETT:  
  You did, it‘s true, you did! I‘ll hate you till I die! I can‘t think of  
  anything bad enough to call you... 
 希礼：我怎么能不爱你呢？你有我缺乏的生命热情。但这种爱不足以让你我如此不同的两个人成就一次成功的婚姻。 
  思嘉：那你怎么不说了？胆小鬼？不敢娶我，你宁可娶那个只会说"是"或"不是"的傻瓜结婚。然后生一堆她那样面青唇白的傻孩子。 
   
  希礼：请你不要这样说媚兰。 
   
  思嘉：你是谁，敢命令我？你骗我，让我相信你会娶我。


SCARLETT: Sir, you are no gentleman. 
  RHETT: And you miss are no lady. Don‘t think that I hold 
  that against you. Ladies have never held any charm for 
  me. 
 思嘉：先生，你可真不是一个君子。 
   
  瑞德：小姐，你也不是淑女。不过我不会以此要挟你的。我对淑女从不感兴趣

Mr.O'Hara: What difference does it make whom you marry? So long as he's a Southerner and thinks like you. And when I'm gone, I leave Tara to you. 

  Scarlett: I don't want Tare, plantations don't mean anything when... 

  Mr.O'Hara: Do you mean to tell me, Katie Scarlett O'hara that Tara...that land doesn't mean anything to you? Why, land's the only thing in he world worth working for, worth fighting for, worth dying for, because it's the only thing that lasts. 

  Scalett: Oh, Pa. You talk like an Irishman. 

  Mr.O'Hara: It's proud I am that I'm Irish, and don't you be forgetting, Missy, that you're half-Irish, too. And, to anyone with a drop of Irish blood in them...why, the land they live on is like their mother. Oh, but there, there. Now, you're just a child. It'll come to you, this love of the land. There's no getting away from it if you're Irish. 

  奥哈拉先生：你嫁给谁又有什么关系呢？只要他是南方人，并且和你合得来。等我死了，我会把塔拉庄园留给你的。 

  斯佳丽：我不要塔拉庄园。农场又没什么用…… 

  奥哈拉先生：凯蒂・斯佳丽・奥哈拉，你是说，塔拉……这片土地对你没什么用处？知道吗？土地是世界上惟一值得劳作、值得战斗、值得为它而死的东西，因为它是惟一永存的。 

  斯佳丽：哦，爸爸，你说话的样子像个爱尔兰人。 

  奥哈拉先生：作为一名爱尔兰人，我很自豪。难道你忘记了，姑娘，你也有一半是爱尔兰血统。对于那些身体中即使只流着一滴爱尔兰血液的人来说，他们居住的土地就是他们的母亲。喏，就在那儿，那儿。现在你只是个孩子，你将来会明白这种对土地的热爱的。只要你是爱尔兰人，你就无法逃避这种爱。 



Rhett: I’m not asking you to forgive me. I’ll never understand or forgive myself. And if a bullet gets me, so help me, I’ll laugh at myself for being an idiot. But there’s one thing that I do know. And that is I love you, Scarlett. In spite of you and me and the whole silly world going to pieces around us, I love you. Because we’re alike. Bad lots, both of us. Selfish and shrewd. But able to look things in the eyes and call them by their right names.“  

  Scarlett: Don’t hold me like that.  

  Rhett: Scarlett, look at me. I love you more than I’ve ever loved any woman. And I’ve waited longer for you than I’ve ever waited for any woman.”  
 瑞特：我不求你原谅。我也永远不会明白、不会原谅自己。如果有颗子弹击中了我，那就帮了我的忙了，我会笑自己是个傻瓜。但有件事情我很明白，那就是我爱你，斯佳丽。不管你我之间发生了什么，不管这整个愚蠢的行将破碎的世界会如何，我都爱你，因为我们俩如此相像。我们俩都有许多缺点，自私又精明，但能够正视现实，敢说真话。  

  斯佳丽：别这样抱着我。  

  瑞特：斯佳丽，看着我。我爱你胜过爱任何女人。我等待你比等待任何一个女人都要久。


As God as my witness… as God as my witness, they’re not going go lick me. I’m going to live through this and when it’s all over. I’ll never be hungry again. No. nor any of my folk. If I have to lie, steal, cheat, or kill, as God as my witness, I’ll never be hungry again.  
 请上帝作证……上帝作证。我不会被打垮的。我要度过这个难关，等难关过后，我永远不会再挨饿。不会，我的家人也不会。即使我得撒谎、偷窃、欺骗甚至杀人，上帝作证，我将不会挨饿。 
 （这个场景是本片最经典的，无论用什么图片都无法描述，即使是剧照）  
 

RHETT: We‘ve sort of shocked the Confederacy, Scarlett.  
  SCARLETT: It‘s a little like blockade running, isn‘t it? RHETT: It‘s  
  worse. But I expect a very fancy profit out of it. 
  SCARLETT: I don‘t care what you expect or what they think, I‘m  
  gonna dance and dance. Tonight I wouldn‘t mind 
  dancing with Abe Lincoln himself. 
 瑞德：我们让那些联合政府的人大吃一惊了，思嘉。 
   
  思嘉：这有点象作突破防线，是吗？ 
   
  瑞德：也许更糟，但我想从中得到更可观的收益。 
   
  思嘉：我不管你想得到什么，或者他们怎么想，我要跳舞，跳舞。今晚就是和亚伯拉罕・林肯跳也不要紧。 



RHETT: Frankly my dear, I don‘t give a damn. 
 瑞德：坦白说，我亲爱的，我一点也不在乎。 
 （据说这句话在美国的“百佳台词”评选上夺魁呢）


After all tomorrow is another day！ 
 毕竟，明天又是新的一天了！ 


In spite of you and me and the whole silly world going to pieces around us, I love you. 

哪怕是世界末日我都会爱着你 

There was a land of Cavaliers and  

  有一片骑士的土地，遍地棉花，  

   Cotton Fields called the Old South?  

  人们称之为古老的南方......  

   Here in this patrician world the  

  这个贵族的世界，  

   Age of Chivalry took its last bow?  

  折射出骑士时代最后的光彩......  

   Here was the last ever to be seen  

  这里有最后的骑士  

   of knights and their Ladies Fair,  

  和他们的佳丽,  

   of Master and of Slaves?  

  最后的奴隶主和奴隶.....  

   Look for it only in books,for it  

  这一切只能在书中看到  

   is no more than a dream remembered,  

  因为他们不过是记忆中的一场梦幻  

   a Civilization gone with the wind...  

  一个业已随风而逝的文明... 
  一个业已随风而逝的文明... 